now there's every chance you've been
sent here by loved one because you're a
keen Baker but you haven't got the dough
balls to back it up so this video is
going to show you all the tips to making
a classic white bloomer loaf and then
we'll use in the perfect grilled cheese
sandwich because let's face it everyone
loves the smell of freshly baked bread
but yours stinks Oh a grilled cheese
sandwich it doesn't get much easier than
that it's bread is cheese its butter
pretty much it however you guys suggest
that you make it a little bit more
difficult for me and I learn how to make
my own bridge so here we go homemade
grilled cheese let's go so we're going
to make a basic bread dough and once
you've nailed this you can make so many
different Bridge this is 500 grams of
strong flour so high gluten content
makes the bread really really soft
spongy absolute perfect goes into our
machine you can do it by hand but
actually this takes all the fuss out of
it
good another thing that makes bread rise
is yeast so we've got droid active yeast
and we need to do pop that into a little
bit of water just to begin to activate
it that just room-temperature water
yeah kind of body temperature it's like
too hot it will kill the yeast too cold
it just take longer and then season your
bread we are going so based this is a
wet glue yep so about a teaspoon of salt
into there don't add it into the yeast
because it has a tendency to store
denature the yeast because of its a pH
levels basically but to sciency all you
need to know is keep the salt separate
from the yeast nothing you've ever done
is in between science right clamp it
down switch it on and then pour in this
you may not need all of it so go sort of
7/8 leave a little bit back bit more
perfectly you can do this by hand but
ideally in the machine it needs about 5
minutes of kneading until it's soft and
elastic it's doing by hand it might
ten minutes just the way you work it
okay okay at this point it hasn't quite
all come back together so dribble a
little bit more liquid in you can't take
out so it's best to hold them back and
had it more if you need it every flower
behaves slightly differently speed it up
get some elbow grease in there there we
go just which it off lifts up and this
is the kind of elastic though we want it
just slide off the dough hook if you
pick it up a little bit of flour if you
find too sticky is a little bit sticky
just so you can handle it
I wouldn't have a feel of this because I
want to okay so is that sort of like
elastic II stretchy dough and when
you're working with clothes back on
itself
yes and that's the gluten in there when
you're working with dough don't touch
any part wait too long like hot potato
keep it moving and then it never sticks
your hand so what you need to do is just
kind of fold in on itself so you're just
tucking the inside in doing the way
you're just rolling and tucking to get a
nice man then take the bowl off without
the hook mushroom and then once you've
got a nice round smooth bit of dough
place it into your bowl cover it with a
tea towel and that just keeps the dust
and insects out allows the air and the
yeast inside to breathe and leave it in
a warm place like room temperature
basically for about an hour to an hour
and a half and what will happen is this
like this expands so you really didn't
see it there it's really ballooned up
and that's the common Doc's that that
comes out of the yeast at this point we
knock it back so literally just put it
away from the edge and not all that air
out but what you've done is add so much
flavor and lightness into that mixture
bring it all together again into a ball
and this time again you want to tuck the
outside back into the middle and then
make it kind of low shape we're going to
make a classic bloomer drop it into
there smooth side up beautiful look at
that
and that is your bread now it's
important to leave it covered under teat
out for another hour and Cara and that
will allow it to double in size and it
kind of balloons up so it'll be right up
here yep at that point you can cut some
slashes across it and place it into
another now the key to baking an awesome
boom and getting the best possible spot
of bread
the crispy beer for crust so get
yourself a tray of water in a hot oven
220 degrees Celsius and a tray of water
in the bottom place it into the oven at
220 cook 15 minutes then without opening
the oven just turn it down to 180 and
cook it for another 25 and it's 40
minutes in total 15 minutes at high
temperature 25 at a low temperature
and the pan of water in the bottom kind
of help steam and create an amazing
crust and then we can use it to make the
best grilled cheese sandwich ever
white Blue Mermaid and remember once
you've nailed this bread recipe you can
do so many different things with it you
can add so many different flavors make
it your own
shake your buns rolled plats we've gone
for the classic I'm going to slice to
doorstep sized slices out of this good
sort to centimetres thick and you only
get the cheese ready to cheese's you
guys said mixture cheese is good
so cheddar and Gruyere you grate those
up
we have geez awesome now remember that
pan of water we head in the oven
that's what gives you that amazing crust
on the bread try that I'm not sure much
Beach fresh bread bread is the death of
me seriously I literally sometimes sit
in on a Saturday night whole Tiger like
icon wow that's a good night in now for
the inside of the sandwich open out like
a book and on the inside I want you
spread some mustard for this is English
mustard it's quite fiery just a little
scratching but it really helps with the
cheese plus when it melts and goes all
gooey you get that little line of yellow
mustard kind of oozing in there girl
the Gruyere is really stringy the
cheddar is full of flavor so we're going
to pile that on top of one side of here
and then a couple other flavors that you
guys suggested a pinch or Agana inside
like so and black pepper beautiful lid
back on and then the key to grilling the
awesome grilled cheese sandwich
it's pan right so not actually going to
grill it there's a severe lack of grill
yeah yes and however the important thing
is not to pan fry it in oil or butter
but to butter the bread so softened
butter with a pastry brush to recap
muscles on the inside but on the outside
then into the pan butter side down there
we go and then you've got a whole nother
side that also needs buttering the key
here dry nonstick pan not too hot you
don't want that bread to burn before the
cheese in the middle has time to do so a
medium heat and you want to give it
about three four minutes to go
beautifully crispy and golden on one
side then we can turn it over after a
couple of minutes we can turn this what
you're looking for is that oh hi yes
golden crispy and for the last minute
just pop a little and what that will do
is trap in all the steam and heat make
sure the cheese is super easy in the
middle but it will still be crispy
because your
on the side here we go and it might
sound like a lot of effort but this is
the best version of the simplest comfort
through never listen to this crunch as
we cut into it and look at that cheesy
goo on the middle you can see the
mustard in there serve it with a chutney
of choice just a little bit of tartness
but that is an incredible real cheese
edge
sorted get the chalks around that and
tell me is that one of the best cheese
sandwiches you've ever tried or why
we'll try it I'm gonna put this in my
happy place
oh that is incredible little flecks of
flavor so good now if you guys know
anyone friends or family who consider
themselves kind of master bakers that
haven't cracked the perfect loaf and
please do share this video with them so
they can see how to make an amazing blue
map and then using cheese toastie
you